[EDU-3149] feat: secure menu > mtls (#487)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/secure-journey/transport-layer-security/mtls.mdx

---
title: How to configure and associate an mTLS certificate to a domain
description: mTLS is a method that validates the digital certificate on the client side and on the edge.
meta_tags: secure, configuration, settings, domains, mtls, mutual authentication
namespace: docs_guides_secure_mtls
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/secure/mtls/
menu_namespace: secureMenu
---
import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro'

[mTLS](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/domains/mtls/) is a security protocol that enables two-way authentication and encryption for network interaction. It confirms that both the client and the server are authenticated and have the clearance for effective communication.

To configure mTLS in your applications, you need a [digital certificate](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/digital-certificates/) with mTLS support signed by a third-party certificate authority (CA). At Azion, this type of certificate is called a **Trusted CA**.

---

> ## Add a Trusted CA certificate and associate it to a domain

Author: Acho que combinamos de deixar h2 no infinitivo/imperativo também né?

> ## Add a Trusted CA certificate and associate it to a domain

Reviewer: em EN segue no gerúndio!

> ## Add a Trusted CA certificate and associate it to a domain

Author: Ack

### Via RTM

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Digital Certificates**.
2. Click the **Add certificate** button.
3. Select the **Trusted CA Certificate** option from the dropdown.
4. Give your certificate an easy-to-remember name.
5. In the **Certificate** field, paste your Trusted CA, including the begin and end tags.

:::caution[warning]

> The certificate file must be in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format, which ends in the `.pem` file extension. Certificates in other formats aren't accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate file must be in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format, which ends with the `.pem` file extension. Certificates in other formats aren't accepted.
```

:::

6. Click the *Save* button.

After adding a **Trusted CA** to your certificate library, you need to configure which domains should operate with mTLS.

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Domains**.

> 2. Click on the domain you would like to configure **mTLS** for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the domain you'd like to configure **mTLS** for.
```

3. Enable the **Enable Mutual Authentication (mTLS)** switch.
4. Choose which verification mode you wish to use.

>   - By selecting **Enforce** (default), mTLS is enabled in your **Edge Application** and all incoming traffic will comply with client and server authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
  - By selecting **Enforce** (default), mTLS is enabled in your edge application's domain and all incoming traffic will comply with client and server authentication.
```

    "certificate_type": "trusted_ca_certificate"
}'
```

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `name` | Name of the certificate instance |
| `certificate` | String that holds the certificate value. Must include the begin and end tags. Line feeds must be replaced by escape sequences (`\n`) |
| `certificate_type` | Enum that indicates the type of the certificate. Trusted CA certificates are assigned the value `trusted_ca_certificate` |

> 2. You'll receive a response similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You'll receive a response similar to this:
```

```json
{
    "results": {
        "id": <digital_certificate_id>,
        "name": "Trusted CA - mydomain.com",
        "issuer": "CA name",
        "subject_name": [],
        "validity": "2028-03-24 20:09:00-03:00",
        "status": "Active",
        "certificate_type": "trusted_ca_certificate",
        "managed": false
    }
}
```

> 3. Copy the `digital_certificate_id` value. You'll need it for when you associate it with a domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copy the `digital_certificate_id` value. You'll need it while associating it with a domain.
```

| `digital_certificate_id` | Enum that, when `null`, selects the **Azion SAN** certificate |
| `edge_application_id` | The [ID of the application](/en/documentation/products/guides/build/build-an-application/) linked to the domain |
| `is_mtls_enabled` | Boolean that, when `true`, activates mTLS verification for the domain |
| `mtls_verification` | Enum that sets the verification mode. Can be `enforce` or `permissive` |
| `mtls_trusted_ca_certificate_id` | The [ID of the Trusted CA](#step-1-add-a-trusted-ca-certificate) |

5. You'll receive a response similar to this:

```json
{
    "id": <domain_id>,
    "name": "mydomain.com",
    "cnames": [
        "mydomain.com"
    ],
    "cname_access_only": true,
    "digital_certificate_id": null,
    "edge_application_id": <edge_application_id>,
    "is_active": true,
    "domain_name": "abcde12345.map.azionedge.net",
    "environment": "production",
    "is_mtls_enabled": true,
    "mtls_verification": "enforce",
    "mtls_trusted_ca_certificate_id": <digital_certificate_id>,
    "edge_firewall_id": null
}
```

6. Wait for the propagation time. Your domain should now be using the mTLS protocol.

---

> ## Add specific rules for using Permissive mTLS

Author: ```suggestion
## Creating specific rules for using Permissive mTLS
```

> To configure a firewall to block access to a domain using the **Permissive** mode in mTLS, you must use the [Rules Engine for Edge Firewall](/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/rules-engine/). The following example describes a rule set that will block any incoming network traffic with the hostname `mydomain.com` whose client certificate validation is not true and deliver a `403 Forbidden` error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a firewall to block access to a domain using the **Permissive** mode in mTLS, you must use the [Rules Engine for Edge Firewall](/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/rules-engine/). The following example describes a rule set that will block any incoming network traffic with the hostname `mydomain.com` whose client certificate validation isn't true and deliver a `403 Forbidden` error.
```

### Via RTM

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Edge Firewall**.
2. [Configure an edge firewall](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/configure-main-settings/) for the mTLS domain.
3. Click the **Rules Engine** tab of the **Edge Firewall**.
4. Click the **New Rule** button.
5. Give your rule an easy-to-remember name.
6. In the **Criteria** section, as a variable, select **Hostname**.
7. As a comparison operator, select **is equal**.
8. As an argument, enter `mydomain.com`.
9. Click the **+ And** button to add a new criteria.
10. As a variable, select **Client Certificate Validation**.

> 11. As a comparison operator, select **is not equal to** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. As a comparison operator, select **is not equal to**.
```

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/edge_firewall/<edge_firewall_id>/rules_engine' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "name": "403 Host=mydomain.com and CCV!=true",
    "description": "Delivers a 403 if the hostname does not match mydomain.com and if the certificate validation fails.",
    "behaviors": [
        {
            "name": "deny"
        }
    ],
    "criteria": [
        [
            {
                "variable": "host",
                "operator": "is_equal",
                "conditional": "if",
                "argument": "mydomain.com"
            },
            {
                "variable": "client_certificate_validation",
                "operator": "is_not_equal",
                "conditional": "and",
                "argument": "true"
            }
        ]
    ]
}'
```

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `name` | Name of the rule |
| `description` | Description of the rule |

> | `behaviors` | Array that stores objects that define behaviors. |
> | `criteria` | Array that stores objects that define criteria. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `behaviors` | Array that stores objects that define behaviors |
| `criteria` | Array that stores objects that define criteria |
```

2. You'll receive a response similar to this:

```json
{
  "results": {
      "name": "403 Host=mydomain.com and CCV!=true",
      "description": "Delivers a 403 if the hostname does not match mydomain.com and if the certificate validation fails.",
      "behaviors": [
          {
              "name": "deny"
          }
      ],
      "criteria": [
          [
              {
                  "variable": "host",
                  "operator": "is_equal",
                  "conditional": "if",
                  "argument": "mydomain.com"
              },
              {
                  "variable": "client_certificate_validation",
                  "operator": "is_not_equal",
                  "conditional": "and",
                  "argument": "true"
              }
          ]
      ],
      "id": <rule_set_id>,
      "order": 0
  }
}
```

---

> ## Specify mTLS variables in HTTP headers

Author: ```suggestion
## Specifying mTLS variables in HTTP headers
```

> If your application is part of the Open Banking model, you must to specify the variables `${ssl_client_escaped_cert}` and `${ssl_client_s_dn_parsed}` in the HTTP headers of your application. You can use the [Rules Engine for Edge Application](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/rules-engine/) to create this behavior for your whole application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application is part of the Open Banking model, you must specify the variables `${ssl_client_escaped_cert}` and `${ssl_client_s_dn_parsed}` in the HTTP headers of your application. You can use the [Rules Engine for Edge Application](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/rules-engine/) to create this behavior for your whole application.
```

Reviewer: whole ou entire?

:::

To test whether the headers you add are being sent in requests, you can run the following cURL command in your terminal from a directory containing the `.pem` files of your Trusted CA and its private key:

```bash
curl -skv https://mydomain.com/ -H "Pragma: azion-debug-cache" -o /dev/stdout --cert cert.pem --key key.pem
```

### Via RTM

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Edge Application**.
2. Find and click on the application with the mTLS domain.
4. Click the **Rules Engine** tab.
5. Click the **New Rule** button and select **Request Phase**.
6. Give your rule an easy-to-remember name.
7. In the **Criteria** field, enter the desired mTLS variable. Example: `${ssl_client_escaped_cert}`.
8. Select the comparison operator **exists**.
9. In the **Behaviors** section, select the **Add Response Header** behavior.
10. As an argument, enter `Mtls-Variable-Name: ${ssl_variable_name}`, replacing the name and variable with the mTLS variable you wish to insert in your application's header.

> - Example: `Escaped-Client-Cert: ${ssl_client_escaped_cert}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Example: `Escaped-Client-Cert: ${ssl_client_escaped_cert}`
```

:::note

> The use of the prefix `X-` in the `header-name` of custom HTTP variables is discouraged by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) under [RFC 6648](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6648/). The IETF recommends using a simple `header-name` format to indicates the actual use of the variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The use of the prefix `X-` in the `header-name` of custom HTTP variables is discouraged by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) under [RFC 6648](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6648/). The IETF recommends using a simple `header-name` format to indicate the actual use of the variable.
```

12. Click the **Save** button when you're done.

### Via API

1. Run the following `POST` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and the `<edge_application_id>` with the ID of the application associated with the mTLS domain:

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/edge_applications/<edge_application_id>/rules_engine/request/rules' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--data '{
    "name": "mTLS variables",
    "description": "Adds certificate values according to Open Banking standards",
    "phase": "request",
    "behaviors": [
        {
            "name": "add_request_header",
            "target": "Escaped-Client-Cert: ${ssl_client_escaped_cert}"
        }
    ],
    "criteria": [
        [
            {
                "variable": "${ssl_client_escaped_cert}",
                "operator": "exists",
                "conditional": "if",
                "input_value": ""
            }
        ]
    ]
}'
```

> 2. You'll receive a response similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You'll receive a response similar to this:
```
